README.md, before:

Sales and Profitability Analysis 

The project focuses on identifying areas of loss and analyzing sales trends in a retail chain.

1. Power BI Report (Visualization)
An interactive dashboard that provides insight into the company's financial health.

# 1. Sales and Margin Map
Geographic visualization showing sales volume
<img width="1281" height="707" alt="Mapa_sprzedaży" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/683b00d4-d113-47de-89c7-c7c255f53085" />

#2. Product Profitability
A chart linking Sales and Margin, revealing areas generating losses.
<img width="1288" height="720" alt="Wykres_Sprzedazy" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e5fc165-6d98-485f-9290-0e0b81cf0caf" />

#3. Trend Analysis
Comparison of current sales to the previous year.
<img width="1284" height="720" alt="Analiza_Trendu" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a5ceb05d-9fbb-4b42-8b84-da97c5caca39" />

2. Analysis in Excel
Processing data in Excel to identify returns

# 1. Combining data (VLOOKUP / XLOOKUP)
Combining the sales table with the list of returns, adding a “Status” column to separate successful transactions from returns.
<img width="1886" height="648" alt="Tabela_transakcji" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f04ffad-208e-4d98-b5eb-f5711512fd59" />

#2. Pivot Table
Summary of financial results broken down by category.
<img width="1443" height="651" alt="Tabela_przestawna" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00cc5fa4-3f23-43ce-9ceb-020af8261b68" />

Commit message:

Add prerequisites for using Power BI report
Added prerequisites section for using the analytical report.

README.md, after:

Sales and Profitability Analysis 

The project focuses on identifying areas of loss and analyzing sales trends in a retail chain.

## Prerequisites
To open and interact with the analytical report, you need to have:
**Microsoft Power BI Desktop** (available for free from the Microsoft Store).

1. Power BI Report (Visualization)
An interactive dashboard that provides insight into the company's financial health.

# 1. Sales and Margin Map
Geographic visualization showing sales volume
<img width="1281" height="707" alt="Mapa_sprzedaży" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/683b00d4-d113-47de-89c7-c7c255f53085" />

#2. Product Profitability
A chart linking Sales and Margin, revealing areas generating losses.
<img width="1288" height="720" alt="Wykres_Sprzedazy" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e5fc165-6d98-485f-9290-0e0b81cf0caf" />

#3. Trend Analysis
Comparison of current sales to the previous year.
<img width="1284" height="720" alt="Analiza_Trendu" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a5ceb05d-9fbb-4b42-8b84-da97c5caca39" />

2. Analysis in Excel
Processing data in Excel to identify returns

# 1. Combining data (VLOOKUP / XLOOKUP)
Combining the sales table with the list of returns, adding a “Status” column to separate successful transactions from returns.
<img width="1886" height="648" alt="Tabela_transakcji" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f04ffad-208e-4d98-b5eb-f5711512fd59" />

#2. Pivot Table
Summary of financial results broken down by category.
<img width="1443" height="651" alt="Tabela_przestawna" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00cc5fa4-3f23-43ce-9ceb-020af8261b68" />
